---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Learning the Language
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-08-30
labels:
  - Javascript
---
Learning Javascript so far has been a very different experience than learning Java. The language isn't the most difficult to understand and although I have no prior experience with Javascript, I find it refreshing to program and learn in something other than Java. Over the past couple of weeks I noticed that Javascript is a lot more forgiving than Java. This is probably the reason why the language is starting to grow on me. I'm finding myself looking at more and more Javascript resources in my freetime to master the language, and I'm actually having fun learning outside of the classroom! I hope as time goes on I can look at other programming languages in the same light that I see Javascript. 

Athletic software engineering or the WODs have been very stressful for me. This is because this style of learning is very different from the ICS courses I took at Windward Community College(WCC). At WCC I was normally given around a week to complete an assignment. This gave me an ample amount of time to do the homework, so I never had to stress about completing an assignment. I could always use google for help if I ran into a problem that I couldn’t figure out on my own. After doing these WODs it became very obvious how little knowledge I actually had. The WODs are also set up in a way where you need to figure out what needs to be written. This idea of not being told what to write threw me off a lot when we did our first practice WOD. At WCC, I was always told what I needed to write, what variables I should use, what statements are needed, and how exactly I would go about completing the program/assignment. Having to figure this out on my own for the first time this week made me realize how worthless all the "knowledge" in my head is if I can't communicate that knowledge into a working program. This made me realize how much more valuable problem solving skills are in Computer Science. Although I haven't had the best time so far in completing the WODs, I definitely think this style of learning is a lot better than what I did while at WCC. I actually feel like I'm learning. This is the most important part of the WODs in my opinion.






