---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Improve Your Coding!
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-09-20
labels:
  - ESLint
---
Coding standards have always been rather confusing to me. When I first started learning about coding standards, I wondered why they were even important. Things such as spacing errors always seemed so uncesserary to me. However, after learning more about ESLint and exactly what standards my code needs to meet, I believe my code has improved dramatically. I no longer run into the simple syntax errors that I used to and now I'm starting to preemptively set up my code in the way it is supposed to be. I no longer need ESLint to tell me exactly what I need to change. I've been running into fewer errors in my programs and it's been very satisfying when the code I write already has the green mark in IntelliJ. In my opinion, ESLint has helped me the most on learning JavaScript.  

ESLint has been the biggest and most important part of my learning process this year. ESLint is very specific about what errors or problems your program may have. This helps me a lot because I can understand exactly what I need to fix. I’m also able to look up the error code ESLint provides. This helps me learn about why my code is wrong so I won’t make the same errors in the future. I’m also able to keep my code very consistent, and readable when using a coding standard such as ESLint. In my opinion, it is important to be consistent. This will especially be a good habit to have if you ever collaborate with others on a project. The extra time you use to make your code up to standard can help save endless hours of explaining what’s going on in your code.

Although ESLint has been a life saver for me, it does have some cons. Always making sure your code is up to standard can be quite frustrating. This is especially true when you’re rushing to get a project done and simple syntax errors can waste a lot of time. For me personally, seeing red error marks everywhere ruins my morale. I constantly say to myself, “Oh no, what did I do wrong now”. Finding out that the error was only not having a new line towards the end of my code is very frustrating. There will always be pros and cons to coding standards for years to come, but the pros significantly outway the cons. 
